>> Erik Reinert: So I think now we're
gonna go into the part where a lot of
people were really like,
what about model this?
What about distributed [SOUND], right?
Again, I really hope that this meme,
if anything, can kind of show you
now what I mean by you don't just pick
something and run with it, right?
There's a lot of validity of using
a one architecture for a long time,
just because, again, it works,
it serves the purpose of the company.
It's solving problems, right?
There is no like, well, I work at
a company and they use monoliths.
Nobody should judge you on that.
If it's a multimillion dollar company,
then they're making money that at
the end of the day, that's what wins.
So again, one does not simply
choose backend architectures,
it's something that you craft.
And so we're gonna talk about common
backend system architectures really with
everything that we just had in mind and
everything that we just talked about.
So we are going to talk about three
commonly used architectures, all right?
Now, there are tons of architectures
out there, because, again,
there are tons of problems being
solved in the technology space.
And it does not even mean that
you should use only one of these.
Everything that I'm about to go through
is only showing you three different
approaches and how you can use
them in different situations.
However, it does not mean that you can
have monoliths with distributed or
not with distributed, or
with serverless or not with serverless.
It's really about solving
the problems that you need.
There might be one team that's really
good at working on monoliths and so
a monolith architecture works well for
them.
There might be another team that works
really well with distributed services,
and so maybe that's a better solution for
that team.
Before I go forward, again,
I really want you to take away that this
is not a one-size-fits-all solution,
right?
One particular way of doing things
doesn't mean that it's the only way
of doing things or it doesn't mean that
that's the only approach you have to
do to do things as well.
So let's get into the first one, monolith.
Has anyone seen Hitchhiker's Guide,
by the way?
Okay, so if you don't know,
this is deep thought.
It's really funny to me at
least because in the story,
they have this huge supercomputer that's
supposed to solve life's answers,
and it says that the answer of life is 42.
And so I feel like sometimes
that's how monoliths feel.
You've got this huge, massive thing and
then it just gives you
this one little result.
So I felt this fit really well for
monoliths.
So let's define a monolithic architecture.
So monolithic architecture is a model
where all the necessary code and
components for a software application
are combined into a single unit, right?
Just out of curiosity, how many
here uses monoliths where you work?
Yeah, it's probably one of
the most common architectures that
you would start with at a company or
even at a project or things like that.
Monoliths are very powerful in their own
right, by the problems that they solve,
how they solve those problems, and
how they can help growth of a company.
So this is really what
a monolith looks like.
It's very simple.
You have users,
they get sent to a specific monolith.
It can normally be the frontend and
backend combined into one, right?
And then maybe there's a database instance
that's behind that or something like that.
But at the end of the day, most projects,
most companies start
with a system like this.
And as I said before,
it's normally completely coupled.
Meaning that your frontend and
your backend are the same thing.
Something like Next.js, for example,
that technically could be considered
as a monolith because you're
doing your frontend logic and
your backend logic all in one place.
And there's a lot of reasons why
Next.js and other frameworks like this
are becoming really popular,
because you can move fast, right?
The idea is that in this
kind of architecture,
everybody's in the same seat.
We're all working together.
We're all modifying or
working on the same code.
There's not tons of changes with regards
to the languages that are being used or
the definitions or
the libraries or whatever.
We're all basically cooking
in the same kitchen.
And so this is what a monolith
can look like if you're
working on something
like that at a company.
So, again,
monolithic architecture basically has all
functionalities tightly coupled,
running in the same system.
So again, if we go back to this monolithic
chart, we'll see that the frontend and
the backend are joined together.
And that means that they can be
worked on in the same sense.
If they need to be updated,
they can be updated together and
you don't have to worry about going
to different places to do so.
Why is monolithic architecture so
valuable?
Well, it's simple to develop, test, and
deploy due to its unified system, right?
You're developing in the same location,
all of your tests exist
in the same location, and
what you're deploying is the same thing,
right, over and over and over again.
It's a small, tightly coupled architecture
that allows you to iterate quickly and
not worry about complications,
abstractions, things like that.
>> Erik Reinert: So the pros, again,
simplicity, it's easy to develop,
test, and deploy, right?
It makes it so that that simple
architecture allows you to move fast.
If a project comes in, everyone's got a
unified understanding of the system and so
that they don't really need to be
asking questions even as well as like,
how do you do something?
It's already there.
Normally, nine times out of ten,
it's already been defined and
there's a good pathway of how to work on
the thing that you're trying to work on.
Monoliths are also really great for
new hires.
You don't have to talk about tons
of complexity or things like that.
You could just say, well, here's
the monolith and here's what we work on.
And as you get more comfortable with it,
you'll start to understand it more and
more.
Another pro is consistency, right?
So there's a uniform approach
to handling requests as every
module uses the same set of procedures.
So, again, for example,
if you're using the monolith frontend
backend system, it's all gonna be HTTP.
You don't have to think about
services talking to each other.
It's really just functional logic in
your backend that you're modifying.
There's no overhead of really anything
else outside of the actual service Itself.
Again, efficiency is
really important here,
because all the functionalities
are interconnected,
it can be more efficient in terms
of inter-process communication.
So when we say efficiency, I wanna be
clear in saying that I'm not talking about
performance efficiency, right?
Although, this can be a part of it.
What I'm talking about is the fact
that everything is in one place.
We do what's called vertical
scaling effectively, right?
It doesn't mean that I will potentially
be creating replicas of this, but
it means that I can just make it bigger,
right?
And when we talk about scaling for
server or for companies,
sometimes vertical scaling
is the much easier approach.
Instead of having to worry about tons of
replicas and how do you auto-scale those,
and then how do you do round-robin
requests and things like that.
It's just make it bigger, [LAUGH] give it
more memory, give it more CPUs, that's it.
And so going back to the Fossabot example,
I've talked to my friend,
Aiden, about it, and
one of the reasons why Fossabot is so
powerful is because he
vertically scales it.
He realized that basically instead of
trying to handle routing requests and
having multiple replicas and
stuff like that,
it made more sense just
to make huge instances.
And so most of the components in that
system are just vertically scaled.
There's not tons of replicas and
thousands of instances processing
hundreds of requests a second.
It's just one huge service processing
all of these requests, again,
kinda like a fire hose.
So the efficiency there is that
if you want to be able to scale
vertically instead of horizontally,
monolith architecture
can actually be very valuable to
what you're trying to achieve.
The cons, however, right,
are the limited scalability, right?
So scaling specific functions
of a system is not possible,
the entire system needs to be scaled,
right?
And so for example, in a monolith,
say you have your frontend and
your backend coupled together.
But maybe you're just doing
a lot of Vue rendering or
processing requests to render something,
but
not necessarily needing to do a bunch of
database requests or things like that.
That's where maybe it would be nicer to be
able to scale the frontend services and
not the backend services with them.
If it's coupled together,
you're scaling both, right?
And so that's something to take away.
With regards to monolithic, you're
limited by the scope of the service and
how it's implemented.
If everything's in one place,
you have to scale everything.
>> Erik Reinert: So lack of flexibility,
this also becomes a challenge
with monoliths, right?
Changes to a single component can require
the entire system to be redeployed.
This is actually a problem we
deal with at my company today.
We have one monolith called Pod.
And Pod, because it serves routes for
everything of that service,
if we update a lower-level route or
lower-level logic,
say like a middleware or something
like that, we now have to test every
single route again to make sure
that everything is working.
And this is a big reason
earlier on in our discussion,
when I talked about our testing resources
versus our production resources,
this was a big reason as to why.
Because every time we made a change,
we were constantly
retesting everything again.
Even routes that weren't touched were
still being retested because it's all part
of the same monolith.
So lack of flexibility is
very challenging there.
Complexity, now you might think that,
okay, well, it's a monolith,
how complex can it get?
I would really encourage you to
look at a huge monolith over
like two to three years.
Monoliths can be complex in the sense that
again, the file system for it can be huge.
You might have tons of libraries,
tons of implementations,
even different design patterns
that are mixed together.
As the monolith grows, it becomes
harder to organize the components in
the monolith, because at the end of
the day, it's still all in the same place.
So you have to have really good design or
really good theory around, okay, well,
how am I decoupling these
components from these components?
A good example of this is we were
doing a change to our monolith,
and we were trying to restrict
access to a given endpoint.
However, the middleware was lower
than the endpoint itself, and
that's where the restriction was put in.
And when they put that restriction in,
it was done via an environment variable.
However, in production, that environment
variable didn't get set, and so
all of our routes stopped working because
of that lower level change that was made
without realizing the impact of how it
could affect the rest of the routing.
And so that's complexity, that's being
able to say, I don't really know how
this was made, right, and so because of
that, I now don't know what I'm impacting.
And so that's when you have to
kind of fully rely on tests.
And if your testing isn't good,
then that can lead to more complexity,
more challenges.
And again, monoliths are great, but
it really needs to be considered how your
monolith is scaling from
a logical perspective.